Anyone know an LLMs, wanna give it a shot?
>> Large language model?
>> Large language model exactly.
It's exactly what it sounds like.
So let me kinda break it down.
Large language model.
So in AI world there are these
things called models.
You can think of models as it's really
just like this gigantic file that
represents, weights.
And basically, it represents statistical
choices that have to be made by
some system, and it kinda guides
it throughout those choices.
It's just a bunch of numbers.
And that's using output of something that
has been trained on some sort of data.
And those files, depending on how much
data went into them, can be large files,
they could be smaller files, things
like that, but that's what a model is.
A large language model is
something that is going to be
useful at understanding and
creating human language.
And that's why it's called
a large language model.
Large being that it was trained on,
and in this case,
billions of tokens of training data,
so billions of parameters.
Yeah, that's basically what that means.
So you can think of them as, I mean,
if you've ever used ChatGPT,
that's an LLM, right?
Using GPT 3.5, or 4 if you switch
that over, they feel very smart.
They almost feel conscious, right?
How do they feel that way?
That basically comes down to
one big discovery not too long
ago actually,
something called transformers.
Up until transformers was created
the way that people have built LLMs,
like some of the early versions of GPT and
this other thing called Burke.
When those LLMs tried to
make predictions on text,
they wouldn't consider the characters
that came before it, and
the text and the words and
the semantics behind those characters.
They would only try to predict what would
come next based off of where you are now.
They didn't have this recursive
graph understanding of
everything up until that point.
So the context was very limited on what it
needed to be able to predict something.
So something called transformers with
attention basically changed that, so this
kind of upgraded the LLMs to be a little
more aware of the intent, or the meaning.
Or the semantics behind whatever
language as the input was coming in,
which therefore exponentially,
upgraded the quality of
the output of those LLM systems.
So now because they know so
much more about what is being said,
they have more context on
what they can predict.
It's basically like, if you were
listening to me talk right now and
you didn't hear anything I said
until just this last word,
how would you predict what I
was gonna say next effectively?
It'd be really tough, but if you do
everything I said up until this point,
you might have a better chance of
predicting what I might say next.
So that's the difference
on a very small scale.
So yeah, pretty effective technology.
So all today's LLMs are mostly
based off of transformers.
That's the T in GPT is transformers.
And attention is the technique
in which it uses.
So some of the ways that you
might see LLMs crushing it today,
you have things that you probably know,
like writing and content.
So if you need a blog post written or
something like that,
it's very helpful for that.
For me, I use it to help me make sense
of some of the code that I was writing.
And in a way that I wanted to
present to you also was actually
one of the first times I used an LLM
to help me figure out the best way
to deliver a curriculum versus
me just doing it myself.
So that was a new experience for me.
Customer support is a big one.
Research is very reliable up until
a point and we'll talk about that.
Education is huge, using LLMs to
learn things a lot more effectively.
When I was actually going back and
learning a lot of those math concepts,
I used GPT, to help me make sense
of the things that were reading
in a textbook because it
didn't make sense to me.
So I'd always ask you, give me a real
world analogy of what the hell this means,
because this explanation
means nothing to me.
And those analogies actually helped me see
it a lot better cuz I need to visually see
things.
And then, obviously, automation,
because you now have this system
that can understand unstructured
content like human text.
Well, now you can automate things that
you couldn't previously have done before.
So there's a lot of human only tasks that
you couldn't really automate efficiently
enough to make it worth
it that you can now,
so we'll talk about some
of those things as well.
And if you've ever used Copilot or
anything like that,
that's what I'm talking about.
Yeah, so here's this, some other
stuff about why they are super cool,
if you wanna read a little bit.
But basically it just talks about
how the predictions are made,
how it's trained on tons of data,
things like that.
I don't think you really
need to know any of this.
I'll just put this in here as context.
If you really wanna get into
some of the more details about
how the LLMs are created and stuff,
I think the most important thing to
know is that it is not conscious.
[LAUGH] It is not or
as far as we know, I mean, do we know?
I don't know, as far as we know, it's not.
But then again we don't really know
how the inner layers of a neural
network works.
As far as we know, we could also
have a neural network who knows?
I didn't say that, but
yeah, it's not conscious,
it's just predicting things
based off the context.
So it feels very powerful, and that's
because it's been trained on a bunch of
data, which requires tons of compute
that you just don't have sitting around.
You need millions of dollars worth of
compute and tons of time to be able to
train one of these things, and
even then, it's not good enough.
There's still more training after that,
that needs to happen.
And then, as far as the LLMs that
we're gonna use today, like I said,
we're gonna use an OpenAI.
OpenAI, see if they have a list
of all there's somewhere,
they have tons of LLMs actually should
be one of their playground, there we go.
They have tons of them.
Here, if I click on Show More Models,
these are basically all
the different models that they have.
They start off at like GPT 3.5 Turbo,
which is the default one that if you use
ChatGPT, that's the one
that you're talking to.
It's their fastest one, it's pretty good,
it sets the standard of what things are.
Since then, they've made so
many more releases.
The way that this works is that
each number after it is basically,
you can think of it as like the higher
number here just means a newer version.
There's more that goes into it,
but that's basically it.
And then sometimes you might see something
like 16K or something like that.
That describes something
called the token limit.
And we'll talk more about
the token limit and
context window when we get
into some of the examples.
I don't wanna get into it too far, but
this just means that this thing can handle
more text than the thing that
doesn't have this by default,
it doesn't handle 60,000
tokens of context.
And then you have the next version
of that which is GPT-4, so better.
Right now,
GPT-4 is probably the best LLM out today,
there really isn't anything that
comes close to how good it is, but
there are things that are more
than good enough, including 3.5.
So most of today I'll be using 3.5,
you can switch over to 4 if you wanna
spend some money on,
when I say spend some money,
I'm talking like a penny or
less, it's still very cheap.
But I'll mostly be using 3.5 because it's
not gonna be that big of a difference per
se, but you can switch out to wherever
you want when me run the examples.
And then, of course, there's other ones
you have, like Claude from Anthropic,
which is a very good alternative,
it's basically the same thing.
They have an API,
they have a really cool stuff.
I think the models that they currently
have right now are mostly all better than
3.5, but not as good as GPT 4,
so somewhere in between.
And then there's Cohear,
there's also a huge list
of just open source ones that
you can go to like Hugging Face.
I know it's such a weird name right?
I love it though.
Hugging Face is like the GitHub for
AI, basically.
And there's just tons
of models on here and
the biggest one might be called Llama 2.
This is probably one of the biggest
open-source ones made by Facebook,
that if you train it a certain way, it can
be just as good as 3.5, if not better.
But probably not as good as 4,
depending on how many parameters you want.
So this version is Llama 2,
7 billion parameters.
And they have another one that might
have like 20 billion parameters or
something like that, that makes it better.
And that's another difference, Claude,
Open AI, those things that are hosted,
you don't need any infrastructure.
You just hit an API,
you get back a response.
The open-source ones, you have to deploy
those somewhere or run them locally,
which means you need a GPU.
So it's open-source, but you still
need the infrastructure to run it.
You can't really run these things on a CPU
yet efficiently, they'll be really slow.
And that's just because,
like how a GPU runs compared to a CPU,
the CPU doesn't run as many
processes in parallel as a GPU does.
The GPU was built to show frames
on the screen very fast, so
it's built in such a way that it can
do a bunch of smaller tasks in parallel
way better than a CPU can, where CPU
might do a few things in parallel.
But those few things are very high
compute, like some algorithm or something
like doing Fibonacci in one process and
crunching numbers in another process.
Whereas a GPU is like,
I'm throwing frames on the screen.
So it's great for something that
needs a lot of work done quickly,
in the case of generating text.
So that's why you need a GPU to
run a lot of these things, and
that's why there's a GPU crunch.
Right now, that's why NVIDIA is one of the
biggest companies in the world right now.
Because everyone needs a GPU to run AI.
That's kind of where we are right now.
>> Any thoughts on the AI for personal
usage, like diet plan calendar set up?
>> I use it all the time for that.
I mean, there are people who are creating
apps around that to help you but yeah,
you can go into ChatGPT.
I've literally went into ChatGPT and
I was like, here are my goals,
create me a fitness plan.
And here's what I'm good at,
here's what I'm bad at,
here are previous injuries that I've had.
And it'll create me something, I don't
take its word as fact because, again,
it's just predicting
what it should say next.
But for me, it's a great place to start.
For me, like, yeah, that's okay,
I can see that, and wait,
that actually doesn't make sense,
I'm not gonna jump rope for three hours.
Why did you say that?
That sounds stupid, but I get it.
Maybe I should jump rope for
20 minutes, though.
The benefits of why you
said I should make sense.
So it's just like a great place to start,
so I highly would recommend.
Basically, as far as personal usage,
bringing in something like GPT where
you would typically go Google something,
I'm gonna go look this up.
Cuz if you think about how that works,
you're looking something up,
you're hoping Google responds
back with some article, or
something that you can read, that you can
then like try to make a decision off of.
You can skip a lot of that by just going
straight to GPT because it was probably
trained on those same articles that you're
eventually gonna click on anyway, so
it's just another
additional research tool.
And then even Google and
Bing have AI results built into the search
engine now that, I don't know,
can be useful sometimes.
I would say one out of ten,
the Google stuff
that I get, let me see, what is a car?
Right, I can click Generate.
And yeah, I'll get some AI
stuff here from Google, right?
So it can be useful, but, yeah,
for me, I think of it as more of,
it's just another tool to research.
So take it with a grain of salt.
All right, so
everybody knows what an LLM is.
Everybody's educated on that?
And just to clear,
LLMs are not way different, but
they're mostly different from things like
if you ever use mid-journey and discord,
that's not an LLM,
that's a diffusion model.
Very similar to LLM is just
that the output is an image.
And that's through some diffusion process
that we're not gonna cover today.
But I actually do have a blog post that
goes into that very scientifically that I
can link to later if you wantna
check out how diffusion models work.
I actually broke down a few of
the scientific white papers and
tried to understand it from that level and
explained it in a way.
So that one's way different as far as
the output, but very similar as far as it
being able to understand human language
and then outputting something.